AI Toolkit docs migration (#7827)
microsoft/vscode-docs: docs/intelligentapps/playground.md

---
Order: 4
Area: intelligentapps
TOCTitle: Playground
ContentId:
PageTitle: AI Model Playground
DateApproved:
MetaDescription: Chat with selected generative AI model in playground. Change system prompt and parameters. Add attachment for Multi-Modal models. Keep chat history.
MetaSocialImage:
---

# Playground overview

Playground is where developer to interact with AI models of choice, try different prompts with different model parameter settings. For the most recent multi-modal models that supports attachment of different format, developer can also interact through playground.

> In AI Toolkit, click the playground or from Model Catalog to load or try in playground, the playground view will display as screenshot:

Author: rewritten.

![alt text](./images/playground/playground.png)

> User must select a model from the choice to start with. Optionally user can insert context instructions or change model parameters. User prompts or questions are entered from the chat box at the bottom of playground, with options to send, clear chat history, or add attachement for the prompt.

Author: fixed

# Add attachment for Multi-modal models

> If the model doesn't support attachment yet, the icon will be disabled. Otherwise click the pin icon, follow the instruction to attach one or more local files and use them together in prompt.

Author: added

![alt text](./images/playground/attachment.png)

# Remote inference in Playground

Users can chat with remotely hosted language model in playground.

> ## Prerequisites

Author: deleted this part.

- AI Toolkit v0.4.0 or newer.
- OpenAI compatible chat completion endpoint.

> ## How to add a remote model

Author: Good point, they are the same. So kept the part in models doc, and removed this as duplicates.

    ![](./images/playground/2-model-name.png)

3. Enter OpenAI compatible chat completion endpoint URL.

    ![](./images/playground/3-endpoint.png)

4. If your endpoint requires authentication, you can set an authentication header for API key. Otherwise, your can just press Enter to skip this step.

    ![](./images/playground/4-auth-header.png)

5. After it is successfully added, the new model will appear in tree view, tagged with `Remote`. It will also appear in model drop down in playground. You can select the model in playground and try inference just like other local models.

    ![](./images/playground/5-inference.png)

    > Note: AI Toolkit will send the chat history, context instructions and parameters to the endpoint, but it depends on the actual endpoint and model whether they are supported.

> ## FAQ

Author: moved this out into faq doc.

---
Order: 3
Area: intelligentapps
TOCTitle: Playground
ContentId:
PageTitle: AI Model Playground
DateApproved:
MetaDescription: Chat with selected generative AI model in playground. Change system prompt and parameters. Add attachment for Multi-Modal models. Keep chat history.
MetaSocialImage:
---

# AI Toolkit playground

The AI Toolkit playground is where you can interact with your AI models and try different prompts with different model parameter settings. You can also use the playground to interact with multi-modal models that support attachment of different input formats.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Test a model in the playground

```

> In AI Toolkit, select the `Playground` in the treeview, or select `Load in Playground`/`Try in Playground` from a model card in the model catalog, you will enter playground view as screenshot:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

There are multiple options to open the model playground:

- In AI Toolkit, select the **Playground** in the treeview

- Select **Load in Playground** or **Try in Playground** from a model card in the model catalog
```

> ![Playground view](./images/playground/playground.png)

Reviewer: Move this screenshot to the intro because it just provides an overview of the playground.

> To get started, perform the steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test a model in the playground:
```

1. Select a model
1. Insert context instructions (Optional)
1. Change model parameters (Optional)
1. Type prompts or questions from the chat box at the bottom of playground
1. Send questions and wait for responses.

> 

Reviewer: @Add screenshots and provide info about the parameters or instructions.

> From the chat box, you can also clear chat history, or add attachement for the prompt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the chat input box, you can also clear chat history or add attachments for the prompt.
```

## Add attachments for multi-modal models

> Multi-modal models allow you to include attachment files in different format, such as image, voice, video, or document, send together with prompts to AI models. You can ask questions about the contents in the attachements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multi-modal models allow you to include attachment files in different format, such as image, voice, video, or document, send together with prompts to AI models. You can ask questions about the contents in the attachments.
```

> For the models that support attachments, the pin icon will show. Select the pin icon, follow the instruction to attach one or more local files and use them with prompt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the models that support attachments, the attachment icon (paperclip) will show. Select the icon, and follow the instructions to attach one or more local files and use them with your prompt.
```
